It has written the most compelling economic development success story of our time. However, its halo is gradually dimming. In the past 20 years, China's economic aggregate has continued to rise in the world's rankings. It has achieved the major economic development in human history. The fastest sustained growth in the world. Today, China’s economy ranks second in the world after the United States. China’s rapid rise has triggered speculation that it will soon become the world’s largest economy. Today, China’s economic development prospects are clouded. For the first time in 20 years, China's economic growth will lag behind other Asian countries. With China's economic growth sluggish, many experts are beginning to rethink when the world's second largest economy will surpass the United States or whether it can ever surpass the United States. Hello everyone, welcome to DW Deutsche Welle Chinese YouTube channel. In this issue of "You'll Understand Once You See It", we will discuss the background of China's economic slowdown. We will also examine what international and external factors threaten China's economic growth. Finally, we will discuss this core question together: Is China still expected to become the world's largest economy? 





























First, let’s take a look at China’s economic growth prospects after bidding farewell to the “clearance”. In 2010, China’s economic growth rate reached an eye-catching 10.6%. Since then, the growth rate has begun to slow down. According to the International Monetary Fund’s forecast, China’s economic growth The trend of rapid slowdown will continue - and will continue until after the epidemic is over. According to predictions, China's GDP growth will also hover below 5% in the next few years. However, there are also some predictions that are relatively more optimistic and will have a huge impact on China's economic growth. The factor is the "clearance policy." Strict epidemic prevention and control has dominated Chinese people's lives in the past three years. In 2022, while most countries in the world have begun to return to normal life, China has tightened strict epidemic prevention and control measures to curb domestic consumption. Putting factories on hold, companies are facing survival difficulties, and it has also triggered the largest anti-government protests in decades. In December 2022, China gradually bid farewell to the "clearance policy" and relaxed control over the economy. However, many analysts believe that the "clearance" era will The end does not mean that China's economy can regain its past high growth. Putting aside some short-term issues, in order to deeply understand the potential factors hindering China's economic growth, we need to first review how China embarked on this fast track of economic growth. More than half a century ago, China was mired in the "Ten Years of Catastrophe" of the Cultural Revolution. The entire country was in a state of political, economic and social chaos. It was not until Mao Zedong's death and Deng Xiaoping gradually took power that the situation completely changed. Reform and opening up brought great changes to the Chinese economy. Earth-shaking changes. Cities are expanding. Manufacturing is booming. People's entrepreneurial spirit is at an all-time high. China's middle class is growing. Deng Xiaoping's reforms have awakened a dormant economic superpower. China has gradually opened its doors to integrate with the world economy. China joined the world in 2001. The trade organization has become a key step. In the six years since joining the WTO, China's annual GDP growth has averaged an astonishing 12%. Cheap labor and integration with the world economy have provided strong impetus for the rise of China's economy. China has become an exporting world. During the global financial crisis, orders from Europe and the United States decreased, so China began to inject funds into its own economy to create jobs. This move laid a huge hidden danger for the Chinese economy - that is, the mountain of debt that the Chinese government built for its own economy. The effect of building a protective wall is significant: the investment boom has maintained China's economic growth rate at close to 10%. This high growth has been maintained until after the global crisis. However, relying on investment in infrastructure to support economic growth also means that the government China’s inefficient infrastructure spending spree is evident in its high-speed rail system. China has the world’s longest high-speed rail network. Despite overcapacity and financial losses, the network continues to expand, even with a sparse population. High-speed rail has also been launched in areas with little transportation demand. Today's high maintenance costs and interest expenses have caused China's high-speed rail to make ends meet for a long time and suffer serious losses. From 2008 to 2021, the ratio between China's debt and GDP has increased from 140% to 286% Today, China’s total debt is already three times the size of its economy. Most of these debts do not appear on the central government’s balance sheet but mainly fall on local governments in order to meet the economic indicators issued by Beijing. Local governments relied on another debt-ridden industry - real estate. In order to raise funds to complete infrastructure projects ordered by the central government, local governments began to sell the use rights of state-owned land to real estate developers. Developers rushed to acquire land and sell buildings - the real estate bubble began. This is getting bigger and bigger, especially in some smaller cities. The scale of real estate development far exceeds the actual residential demand, resulting in the emergence of so-called "ghost towns" with a large number of vacant residential buildings. Today, China's idle housing is enough to house the entire population of France. This has led to mountains of debt. The real estate market faces the risk of collapse at any time. In order to curb the risk, the government has tightened restrictions on the debt scale of real estate companies. The most famous case is the Evergrande debt crisis. "Unfinished buildings" have wiped out many people's life savings and banks are in trouble. The government has also been dragged into a debt quagmire. What does the debt problem mean for China's overall economy? 















































































































In order to reduce the huge deficit, the Chinese government will have to cut spending. This means they have to bid farewell to the path that brought China's economy to success in the first place. Consumption is another dark cloud hanging over the Chinese economy. To escape the public debt and housing crisis, China must give Another economic engine is injecting power, which is to stimulate domestic demand. In short, Chinese people need to increase consumption, but what we are seeing is not the case. In the past three years, strict anti-epidemic measures have restricted consumption. However, the "clearance policy" has not prompted The only reason why Chinese people keep their wallets tight is that China has one of the highest resident savings rates in the world. This is not only due to the traditional virtue of "thrift" but also due to distrust of the social security system. There is another factor that has led to China's Residential consumption cannot provide enough power for economic growth. That is what we mentioned earlier - the debt problem. As China bids farewell to its "zero-clearing policy", many analysts believe that how to alleviate people's anxiety about financial issues is to promote the economy to return to growth. The key to the track, in other words, is that the Chinese government has refused to pay the price of stimulating domestic demand. At the same time, China is also facing another internal challenge, which is the change in demographic structure. China's birth rate has dropped to the lowest level in history. In the early decades, the average per capita | Chinese women give birth to 2.7 children, and in 2021 this average number dropped to 1.2, which is far lower than the 2.1 required to maintain the current population size of a country. Not long ago, China just passed a historic turning point: since the 1960s China's total population has shown negative growth for the first time since 2015. The United Nations predicts that China may lose its status as the world's most populous country within this year. The family planning policy implemented from 1980 to 2015 is one of the causes of population shrinkage, but even now the government allows a Couples have a maximum of three children. Many young people are still unwilling to raise more offspring - some don't even want a single child. The transformation China is currently experiencing will have far-reaching consequences for the future. The population is at its most rapid economic growth period. Dividends have brought huge advantages to China. A large number of laborers have become the main force in the manufacturing industry. Now this situation is changing. The negative growth of the population means a reduction in the labor force, and the relative shortage of labor will push up wages. Some experts have warned that this factor will This will make it increasingly difficult for China to meet the world's huge demand for cheap goods. The growing elderly population will also place additional burdens on China's already underfunded pension system. Demographic changes are a long-term process, so the Chinese government still needs to take measures to respond. Space for Measures The past "only one child is good" has been transformed into today's "three-child policy." In addition, the government has also introduced supporting measures to encourage childbirth, including improving women's maternity leave benefits, reducing education costs and kindergarten fees, etc. However, so far No obvious results have been seen yet. China is heading towards a demographic dilemma. However, it will be some time before population shrinkage actually leads to a slowdown in economic growth. It is not just domestic problems that pose a threat to China's economic growth. The international environment that once contributed to China's economic rise has also Today, the world is facing the pressure of sluggish economic growth and inflation. The demand for Chinese goods has decreased. The proportion of Chinese exports in GDP has dropped from 36% in 2006 to 2021. 20% Another important factor restricting China's economic growth is that the entire world is tending to fragment rather than integrate. The world's two largest economies are in the midst of a fierce strategic competition. The COVID-19 epidemic has further exacerbated this trend because of the epidemic. The costs of interdependence between the two have been exposed. In October 2022, the United States introduced a series of sanctions and restrictions. This time, it was not targeted at certain individuals or companies in China, but at an entire industry. China and the United States are two major powers. Just how far the decoupling of supply chains and interdependencies will go is unclear, but what is certain is that the international environment that once enabled China's economic prosperity has become harsher. Now let's return to the question we asked at the beginning: China Can it surpass the United States and become the world's largest economy? 















































































































Several experts interviewed by Deutsche Welle believe that China's economic development has exceeded its original blueprint. As an emerging economy, China's rapid rise is due to its strong urbanization of its labor force and the upgrading of its manufacturing industry. When the power of these engines weakens, Other engines need to be ignited to boost. Some analysts believe that Beijing’s policymakers still have the tools to promote new economic growth. China is at an inflection point in economic development. But what will such a turning point mean for China’s path to becoming the world’s largest economy? Experts from all walks of life have different opinions on what this means. As most countries in the world have taken the first step to say goodbye to the epidemic prevention restrictions, China's development path towards world economic hegemony has become increasingly bumpy. Beijing's next actions will determine whether China will take the next step. On a new stable road, we are still struggling on a dangerous path. The above is the entire content of this program that you can understand at a glance. Do you think there will be a day when China will surpass the United States and become the world's largest economy? 

























Welcome to leave a message to participate in the discussion. It is

good to like and subscribe. Independent thinking is more expensive.

Deutsche Welle provides free information for free decision-making.

Thank you for watching. See

you next time!

