I remember that in 2019, when talking about the Chinese economy, there was a saying that was very popular on Chinese social media at the time. It said: 2019 may be the worst year in the past ten years, but it will be the worst year in the next ten years. The best year was when I heard this sentence. In the eyes of Chinese officials, the new crown was just a rumor. Russia had not yet invaded Ukraine. Hamas and Israel had not yet launched a new round of life-and-death struggle. The Chinese economy had not yet fallen into the real estate market and A. The stock market has been on a sharp decline. Local government civil servants and bank employees have been unable to pay their wages. We have been plagued by deflation and weak domestic demand. In the following years, every New Year's occasion has to be admired for the foresight and wisdom of the person who originally said these words. Of course, You can still say that he just happened to be right. Of course you can say that the pessimists are right and the optimists are moving forward. But the time has come to the beginning of 2024. What we can see is that the Chinese economy is facing unprecedented challenges. 2023 is already difficult enough, but now you can listen to Some people say that the past year will be the best year in the next 10 years. Where is the future of China's economy? 

























































Will the pessimists be right again,

or will the future slap the pessimists in the face and

soothe the optimists who are burdened to move forward?

Welcome to pay attention to "You'll understand at a glance" brought to you by Deutsche Welle DW in the new year. What will be the state of

China's economy at the end of 2023 and the beginning of

2024

? What will the future be like?

Let’s first take a look at what some European voices say?

Let’s take a look at what local voices from China have to say?





























Our overall judgment for 2024 is actually more positive and optimistic than that of 2023. There will also be many challenges and tests for the Chinese economy itself. We think it is still very resilient. We feel that by 2024, we will have some previous accumulation and get out of the epidemic. There should be more opportunities in the second year. The current situation of China's economy is currently developing steadily and is relatively conservative in terms of consumption. However, economic growth and import and export problems are not big, so 24 years should be a stable and upward process. According to various sources we interviewed From the statements of experts and analysts, we can clearly see that such a trend has implications for the major theme of our program: Where will China's economy go in 2024?  The judgments made by voices within China and abroad, as well as the voices of the general public and the voices of social elites, are like coming from two different planets. On the one hand, whether it is Chinese people living and working in Europe or scholars and experts, they talk about their judgments on China’s future economic trends. Most of them have a relatively pessimistic attitude. If you listen to the voices in China, whether it is the general public or experts from think tanks, they are full of confidence in the future development prospects of the Chinese economy. There is a belief that "all the bad is good" and it can also be observed. An interesting phenomenon is that the general public in society are more confident in China's future development, while the people closer to the decision-making and so-called elites are more cautious about the prospects of China's economy. This may have something to do with the Chinese government. The blockade of external information is also related to pragmatic optimism. Let’s take a look at the attitude of authoritative international official institutions towards China’s economic development prospects in 2024. 







































The International Monetary Fund raised its forecast for China's gross domestic product (GDP) growth in 2023 and 2024 in November 2023. The organization expects China's economy to grow by 5.4% in 2023, up from its previous forecast of 5% growth in 2024. Although it is expected to be lower than 2023, about 4.6%, it is still higher than the previous forecast of 4.2%. However, if you look at the International Monetary Fund's forecast of China's GDP growth in the next few years, you have to sigh. The pessimists may be right again. It is predicted that China's economic growth rate in 2025 will be about 4.12%, the growth rate in 2026 will be 4.07%, the growth rate in 27 years will be 3.66%, and the growth rate in 28 years will be 3.38%. If you ask about the data in 29 and 30 years? 































All I can say is that right now, there’s really no point in making predictions.

Could you have imagined at the beginning of 2019 that something called COVID-19 would throw the world into chaos?

Can you imagine that Putin will reach Kiev at the end of 2021?

Different from the more pessimistic expectations of the International Monetary Fund, Chinese officials are mostly optimistic about the economic outlook for 2024. A review of official media reports feels that the next year will be a year of full recovery, including predictions that China will drive the global emerging economies. The accelerated recovery is currently relatively conservative. The economic growth rate is estimated to be 5%. In the first half of the year, it may be relatively conservative and focus on stability. I think that in the second half of the year, we should be able to let go and vigorously work to recover and exceed the new growth rate before the epidemic. Most of the bright spots will appear in data elements. Most of the new bright spots will appear in data elements, new energy and new digital construction. If real estate was the locomotive driving China's economic growth in the past, it is very likely that it will be a new locomotive in the future. It is the progress of science and technology. At least this has become a consensus in China. Looking at China's new energy electric vehicles in the past 23 years, of course it also includes other industries, including artificial intelligence, quantum computing and semiconductor fields. There are some new companies that have come out to overcome great difficulties. There are still many new industries and business opportunities. In terms of competition as a whole, I think China and the United States have already opened a certain gap with Europe and Japan. So I think the key issue for China is not whether we predict next year. It will definitely be stronger. In fact, what is really important is whether it can integrate more global and own resources during the changes in the industrial and technological revolution. It can stand on the forefront in this regard, whether it is 5.0% or 100%. An economic growth rate of a few percent is actually not ideal for China because the Chinese government has been emphasizing for the past ten years that GDP should be doubled within 10 years. Good readers of mathematics know that this must be achieved. The annual GDP growth rate must reach at least 7.2%. According to various predictions, it is difficult or even almost impossible for China’s economic growth to return to the level starting with 7 in the next 10 years. Here we must also It is pointed out that as the size of China's economy becomes larger and larger, it will become more and more difficult to achieve high-speed growth. If China's GDP in 2022 is calculated as a growth of 5%, it means that the total GDP of Switzerland in 2022 has grown. To achieve a growth of 7.2% in 2024 means that China must create an additional annual GDP of Indonesia on the existing basis. In addition, although China’s economic growth forecast of approximately 5% in 2024 is still somewhat unsatisfactory, let’s put it bluntly. In the framework of the global environment, it’s not bad because the International Monetary Fund’s forecast for global economic growth in 2024 is about 3%, the European Central Bank’s forecast is 3.2%, and the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development (OECD)’s forecast is Only 2.7%. Why can I laugh at 1%, 2% or even negative (growth rate) in one sentence? What is his inner advantage? Tell me? 



















































































































I have to say that such a statement also represents some of the viewers of our channel. To be fair, I am not saying that others are mocking China's GDP growth, but that economic growth is crucial to China and is the hope of all people and the whole society. In short, it is the Communist Party of China. The legitimacy of governance relies heavily on economic growth. Over the years, the government and the public have reached an unspoken contract, which means that as long as you make the lives of our people better and better, I will fully recognize your one-party dictatorship and accept it willingly. Is the current situation of China's economy under your leadership getting closer to the point where people's dissatisfaction will explode outward? 































I think raising this question itself shows that some people in the West do not have a deep understanding of China’s thousands of years of history. In fact, the so-called spirit of such a contract has always been there. It is not in a written form, but everyone knows that China’s rule Classes have always had certain so-called legitimacy issues, so that people can live better. The economy has been developing. It is not like this for one party in one period. In fact, it is like this in the long term. If we believe the data released by China’s official government, no matter how big or small the increase is, But it can be seen that China's economy has basically been growing. Regarding the issue of whether economic growth is the basis for the legitimacy of the Communist Party of China, many voices in China have completely different views from those abroad: The basis is not based on this at all, because if you think about China's hard life In fact, the time is not short. According to this principle, the dynasty should have changed hundreds of times long ago. The Chinese people's support for the (Communist Party) is not based on this. It is not that they have endured hardships. Moreover, today's young people are less admiring of foreign countries. Chinese historian Sima Guang During the Song Dynasty, they realized that "it is easy to move from frugality to luxury, but it is difficult to move from luxury to frugality." This was regarded as a family motto. In the past 45 years of China's reform and opening up, people's living standards have improved significantly. How willing are people to live a hard life now? 





















































What kind of days are hard days?

In fact, it is a debatable issue. In any case, judging from the recent series of operations of the Chinese government, it is to avoid a repeat of the hard times, including the continuous introduction of loose and supportive policies for the real estate market, the further opening of the financial and service industry markets to foreign investment, and the issuance of additional RMB 10,000. Measures such as providing blood transfusions for debt-ridden local governments and other measures to some extent demonstrate the Chinese government's determination to reform. However, in the eyes of some analysts, these measures only scratch the surface and do not cure the root cause. Of course, we have also heard various reports in the past few decades. Various theories of China's collapse. Every time a crisis occurs, there are always people who think: China really can't survive this time, but it relies on its huge economy, abundant natural resources, and hard work. The Chinese people are resigned to the situation. China has emerged from one crisis after another. In fact, it is the same for other economies. It is always difficult to predict one year. From a long-term perspective, we can see that no matter it has experienced the test of politics, the test of technology, or The test of industrial chain adjustment is still a point that cannot be bypassed by so much capital and so much cooperation. I think this in itself shows its resilience and success. Will this extremely resilient and incredible growth story of the Chinese economy be able to continue in the future? continued? 























































I hope that all the readers here can make their own judgment. We gather the voices of all parties and add our own observations in order to provide you with free information for your free decision. Thank you very much for accompanying us this year. Deutsche Welle DW Chinese The number of subscriptions to the YouTube channel has also exceeded 100,000 during 2023. Every time you watch, every message, and every constructive criticism and encouragement are the driving force for our progress. Where China's economy will go in 2024 may not be very clear, but What you can be sure of is that our DW Chinese program will continue to bring you independent, impartial, timely and professional programs because "like and subscribe are better, but independent thinking is more expensive." Everyone, please take care and see you next time.






































